# ACM Research Coding Challenge (Spring 2022)
# Michael Zayne Lumpkin
## [](https://github.com/ACM-Research/-DRAFT-Coding-Challenge-S22#submission-procedure)Submission Procedure

4.  Submit your solution by filling out this [form](https://acmutd.typeform.com/to/uTpjeA8G).

## Assessment Criteria 

Submissions will be evaluated holistically and based on a combination of effort, validity of approach, analysis, adherence to the prompt, use of outside resources (encouraged), promptness of your submission, and other factors. Your approach and explanation (detailed below) is the most weighted criteria, and partial solutions are accepted. 

This program was written entirely in Java, without any APIs or libraries outside of the JDK. The program, in general, parses all the characteristics of all the mushrooms in the CSV, and assigns a weight to all values seen for all characteristics based on the proportion of the occurrences in edible vs. poisonous mushrooms. Then, for each mushroom, the weight of all of its characteristic values are summed, and the sum is used to determine if the mushroom is edible or not: a number above the threshold is predicted to be edible, a number not above the threshold is predicted to be poisonous, and the threshold is determined by the caution value, which decreases overall accuracy while also decreasing the amount of false positives for edibility as it increases. The training proportion is set by the user. This produces a fairly accurate result,with 90+ percent accuracy for training proportions below 1%, and has the benefit of being flexible; it works reasonably well for this data set, but would also, hypothetically, work as well for any other data set, so long as there was a correlation between the values we were trying to correlate. The fact that the ratios, weights, and proportions are determined dynamically, per run, is the greatest strength of this method. However, for this particular dataset, odor is clearly the best indicator. Making a determination based solely on odor results in the most accurate predictions, and is less computationally intensive. Outside resources were not used, and the asymptotic time complexity is linear [O(n)], although a fairly intensive one in practical terms, every category of every item in the list being traversed at least twice, and the number of values recorded for each category increasing the duration of one such loop multiplicatively. Since no category has a high number of possible responses, this code executes in under half a second in non-verbose mode, at least on my system, for the complete data set with a training proportion of 1, which I would consider acceptable performance. Execution time was similar for a CSV of 100,000 lines I created. 	

To run the program from the command line, move to the directory in which it is contained and use the command "java -jar mushroomAnalyzer.jar". If the CSV is in the same folder, you can just enter "mushrooms.csv", without a filepath.